=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

seedrng - seed the Linux kernel random number generator from seed files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<seedrng>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<seedrng> is a simple program for seeding the Linux kernel random
number generator from seed files.  The program takes no arguments,
must be run as root, and always attempts to do something useful.

This program is useful in light of the fact that the Linux kernel RNG
cannot be initialized from shell scripts, and new seeds cannot be
safely generated from boot time shell scripts either.

It should be run once at init time and once at shutdown time.  It can
be run at other times without detriment as well.  Whenever it us run,
it writes existing seed files into the RNG pool, and then creates a
new seed file.  If the RNG is initialized at the time of creating a
new seed file, then that new seed file is marked as "creditable",
which means it can be used to initialized the RNG.  Otherwise, it is
marked as "non-creditable", in which case it is still used to seed the
RNG's pool, but will not initialize the RNG.

In order to ensure that entropy only ever stays the same or increases
from one seed file to the next, old seed values are hashed together
with new seed values when writing new seed files:

  new_seed =    new_seed[:-32]
             || HASH(   fixed_prefix
                     || real_time
                     || boot_time
                     || old_seed_len
                     || old_seed
                     || new_seed_len
                     || new_seed
                     )

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item I<SEEDRNG_SKIP_CREDIT>

If the I<SEEDRNG_SKIP_CREDIT> environment variable is set to C<1>,
C<true>, C<yes>, or C<y>, then seeds never credit the RNG, even if the
seed file is creditable.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F</var/lib/seedrng>

The directory where the seed files are stored.

=item F</var/lib/seedrng/seed.credit>

"Creditable" seed file.

=item F</var/lib/seedrng/seed.no-credit>

"Non-creditable" seed file.

=back

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
